“You can’t teach an old dog new tricks,” my highly educated dad
always said.
I had talked with him on several occasions, doing my best to
explain the CASHFLOW Quadrant, in an effort to give him some new
financial direction. Nearing 60 years of age, he was realizing that many
of his dreams weren’t going to be fulfilled. His “blacklisting” seemed to go
beyond the walls of state government. He was now blacklisting himself.
“I tried it, but it didn’t work,” he said.
My dad was referring to his attempts to be successful in the
S quadrant as a self-employed consultant, and as a B when he poured
much of his life savings into a famous ice-cream franchise that failed.
Being bright, he conceptually understood the different technical
skills required in each of the four quadrants. He knew he could learn
them if he wanted to. But there was something else holding him back.
One day over lunch, I talked to my rich dad about my educated dad.
“Your father and I aren’t the same people at the core,” said rich dad.
“While we both have fears, doubts, beliefs, strengths, and weaknesses,
we respond or handle those core similarities quite differently.”
“Can you tell me the differences?” I asked.
“Not over one lunch,” said rich dad. “But how we respond to those
differences is what causes us to remain in one quadrant or another. When
your dad tried to cross over from the E quadrant to the B quadrant,
intellectually he could understand the process, but he couldn’t handle it
emotionally. When things didn’t go smoothly and he began to lose money,
he didn’t know what to do to solve the problems, so he went back to the
quadrant he felt most comfortable in.”
“The E and sometimes S quadrant,” I said.
Rich dad nodded his head. “When the fear of losing money and
failing becomes too painful inside, a fear we both have, he chooses to
seek security and I choose to seek freedom.”
“And that is the core difference,” I said, signaling the waiter for
our check.
“Even though we’re all human beings,” said rich dad, “when it
comes to money and the emotions attached to money, we all respond
differently. And it’s how we respond to those emotions that often
determines which quadrant we choose to generate our income from.”
“Different quadrants for different people,” I said.
“That’s right,” said rich dad as we stood and headed for the door.
“And if you’re going to be successful in any quadrant, you need to have
more than just technical skills. You also need to know the core differences
that cause people to seek different quadrants. Know that, and life will be
much easier.”
We were shaking hands and saying good-bye as the valet brought
my rich dad’s car around.
“Oh, one last thing,” I said hurriedly. “Can my dad change?”
“Oh sure,” said rich dad. “Anyone can change. But changing
quadrants isn’t like changing jobs or changing professions. Changing
quadrants is often a change at the core of who you are—how you think
and how you look at the world. The change is easier for some people than
for others simply because some people welcome change and others fight
it. And changing quadrants is most often a life-changing experience. It’s
a change as profound as the age-old story of the caterpillar becoming